>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we are going to filter data.
Here's our data structure.
It's an array of objects.
Each of these objects
have three properties,
a name, a present property and
an array of rooms.
Is this the right one?
Yes, yes it is okay and an array of rooms.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
everyone found the data okay it was
able to copy and paste easily cool.
I'll just leave it open
like that all right, so
we are going to use our filter function?
What's our list?
VideoData and
what is our callback gonna be?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is a suspect
Object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is also
the nice thing about using
callbacks instead of loops,
is that we can really name what these
items are, and it makes it super clear.
Okay, so what do we need to do?
>> Speaker 2: Return suspect.
Present.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: SuspectObject.present in
this case.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Present.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, anyone else do
it differently?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
we're gonna walk through how this all
works together with our filter function
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sound good?
It gets a little funky when we have,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Functions passing to
functions.
So I like to go over how it's run.
So we can also find bugs this way.
So the first thing's first,
where does this code start?
So we're defining this here.
Nothing is run yet,
we're just defining it.
We're gonna talk about this a lot
more in depth in our next slide, but
I'm getting you primed here.
We have our data,
nothing really happens except for
we're initializing this
big data structure.
And we are calling
the filter function here.
So the first argument is video data,
so our array is the video data array.
And CB is this function here, okay?
So for each item, so
the very first item in our array is what?
Here let me put this Here, so that we can.
This is not how it should run in order,
actually, let me do this,
put our video data here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There we go, just so
we can look at it at the same time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do
a little word wrap here, okay?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Looks
kind of ugly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
this is what we're gonna do.
So our array, so the first item
in our array is this Miss Scarlet object.
So we're gonna call our
callback with this object, so
the item is that object.
Which has a property present.
Which is true, so,
Miss Scarlett was present, at the mansion,
at the time of the murder.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then,
we have our storage object,
which we will push that item.
So the storage item,
the storage array, now has the item.
If I said, type of what is this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Gonna
print out.
>> Speaker 3: Boolean value true?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Not quite, but
good guess.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So let's retrace this,
so this function is getting called
with each item in the array.
This is an array of objects.
So the first item in the array
is of type object, exactly.
So we're gonna have an array
of objects returned
at the end.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Make
sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why are we using
map her?
Why don't we just do this?
>> Speaker 4: You know it will
actually distort the data we want,
just the true or false and
whether it passes the test.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's true, but
also map always return
a function of same size.
If we wanna like actually
filtering get new data then we
wanna get an array that showed only the
things that passed through, we need to use
each.
>> Speaker 5: So if we did use map,
just based on what you just said, would
that mean it would return an array of
the same length, and all of the non-true
ones would just have the word false or
something most likely, or
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
you would need to make sure that,
in this function,
instead of pushing, you would need to.
So, if we rewrote this with MAP,
we would need to.
So, we would say, if that's true,
we're gonna return
the item, but if it falls this
stills gonna return on your finds,
so you're have an array,
of a bunch of undefined values
where it doesn't need that criteria.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If that makes sense,
so the array would be the same link,
they would have some values and
then the rest of them.
Will just be these undefined values and
that's not going to work.
That's not the best solution.
First of all, it's taking up more space.
Second, then we have to deal
with those undefined values.
Okay, great.
>> Speaker 6: I have a question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 6: When you call the call back,
there are three parameters.
But only one is
used in the actual call back in this case.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: In
this case.
>> Speaker 6: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 6: So the other ones are just,
it's overloaded in that case, or in what
case would you use those other parameters?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It depends on
the call back that you are using
>> Speaker 6: So
if you needed to go deeper into a list?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
if you just needed to be aware of at
what index the item was in the list?
So you're passing the index, and
also if you ever need to reference the
original data structure for any reason.
It just keeps it flexible.
And for
the most part it's not a huge cost to do
that especially if you're passing objects.
Again we're just passing references to it
we're not passing the whole object around,
so, great.
So I think we should take a five
minute break and I have a prompt for
you guys to ask each other during your
break since Minnesotans are shy I
feel like I need to give you guys prompts.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Your
guys' words not mine.
The prompt is,
what's the most important thing to
know about JavaScript, in your opinion.
You don't have to be an expert,
it's not an expert opinion.
Just what seems really
important kind of opinion,
loosely held.
Ready, set, go, I want to take a break.
>> Speaker 6: Wait before we get to that,
just a question in online
chatroom about your code.
The if block, having it all on
one line without curly braces,
people were just wondering about that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure,
what is the question?
Can you emit if it's a single expression.
>> Speaker 6: No is she missing a curly
braces in the if statement or is that
>> Speaker 6: Okay,
that meant if it's on the same line.
They're just wondering that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
as I mentioned, it's okay.
We don't need to put curly brackets,
because it's on the same line.
But, of course, you can always put them
if it makes you feel comfortable and
that's what I tend to do.
I tend to just put curly brackets
everywhere, cuz it just makes me feel like
a nice secure blanket of curly brackets
and it doesn't do anything confusing or
weird especially when we get
into like arrow functions and
stuff like that I just feel-
>> Speaker 6: Cuz if you it's really not
about one line, if you have two statements
on one line after the if, Statement
it would only run the first one right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 6: It's not about lines,
it's about statements.
Then it's fine, but
anyway it can get you into
trouble when it's unclear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 6: Where the semi colon would
be inserted?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, yeah,
I recommend to not do this but
I was just showing it as an example.
You'll notice when I write it the first
time, I write a longer form way and
that tends to be the way I
actually code is more long form.